Yeah this is a this is a place that we got a good picture of.
We're gonna have to study these more closely. We'll
go to the next slide. These lights up here shouting at our eyes but yeah it's
hard to see now this is an impressionist painting that we got out of the Museum
of National Art in Washington DC. Actually this is a picture taken of a desert a
desert area in Iran and it looks like an impressionist painting and when I saw
it I said wow look at nobody will believe this and I looked at it since and I
don't believe it either but that's a whole area of desert silted sands and
absolutely spectacular beauty. Unbelievable. The next slide. Now
there's another one of those little known areas from the area that's hard to
recognize but it was the hometown for 444 days of 52 of our most distinguished
humans and and we thought we'd send them a picture of their ex hometown
autographed from up outer space. That's chair in our end. Next slide. Oh
there there's like this is my favorite picture because this is the chief cook
and he's preparing a meal and it looks like he's in one gravity and that because
he can hook his toes under that box down there and and just sit there and fix
things right up and he did an outstanding job of preparing chow and kept me
alive that whole two days space programs come a long way with respect to food
that we've got on board. They sure have a few steps to go but we're coming. Okay I
believe that should be the last slide, if we could terminate those and go ahead
and have the movie please.
After on the 36 rev we well actually hour or so before that we closed up these
payload bay doors and those things those big babies functioned without a hitch
throughout the flight and I certainly was happy because one of the jobs John
said I was supposed to go outside and close them in case they didn't work but
they they buckled down nice with no problem. Actually this shot was from taking
them at night. You can notice that they bounce around quite a bit up in zero g
which was one of the reasons we got these was to come back and show our guys
that are gonna be flying the next flight so they can handle the doors properly.
Yeah they're not little doors they weigh about 3,500 3,600 pounds apiece and
they have a lot of resiliency and zero gravity. This is taken out the window and
it shows the first part of reentry. It's done at two frames a second and it
actually there was a light pink glow going on right now pinkish the pinkish red
glow out there and by golly this cap this film is not fast enough to capture it.
It's just beautiful it's like flying in a pink world. It's not the big fiery
entry as some of our artistic friends that depicted it. It's a 12 times faster in
real time but you can certainly get a feel for just how fast things are
happening. We're moving but not quite that fast. Yeah that was the role reversal
that occurred at Mach 18 and a half and the next role reversal is it just a
little less than Mach 10. So you can see it's 12 times faster than real world
either that or we're slowing down a lot faster than I thought. See those clouds
out there? There's the 10 Mach 10 role reversal. This next one will be a role
reversal at Mach 4.8 and then we slow down the camera and if you can look out
the window there. Bakersfield is going by coming down to San Joaquin Valley. Yeah
Tehachapi's out there and this is a roll level that was done at about Mach 2 and
a half when we're trying to intercept what we call a heading alignment circle
which is dig just a big teardrop approach into the field. Actually I'd like to
stress that that whole entry with the exception to come up from right at Mach 2
was as smooth as anything you could you could wish for and that period the press
kind of built up a little bit about the blackout period was uneventful except
the thing worked like we wanted it to. Tell you there was a couple of guys in
there that was sweating through it though because if it hadn't worked we
couldn't uh couldn't be couldn't be here today and it just flew so solidly it
was unbelievable, much better than the simulators, and I was happy to see that.
This shows a couple of the other dry lake beds that are in the area of the
Edwards complex which is one of the nice things that that facility offers for us
out there is there are lots of alternate runways in case you run into any kind
of problems. It's a chase plane join up scene that doesn't look too good there. We
had two chase t-38s one carrying a TV camera. This is an out the window scene of
coming around the heading alignment circle. Pretty soon you'll see the the road
at the north end of Edwards complex coming in there we went we got overhead
Edwards at about 40,000 feet and that's where we went subsonic and we basically
like entered on a on a downwind leg and just a big turn from overhead. John took
over flying the vehicle uh initially up at about Mach 4.8 and did a couple of
reversals there and and gave it back to auto a couple times but at this point he
uh about 30 some odd thousand feet all the way down he was flying and the
vehicle was really doing it because it's an attitude. The whole type vehicle and
when you put the nose somewhere it just stays there. None of our simulators have
been able to to do that uh attitude whole feature as well as it as the actual
vehicle did it. Was a really impressive thing. It's very difficult to see it but
there's an aim point out here somewhere which is a big triangle since we get
rolled out here
shows the chase plane join up and he's uh what's happening is uh John McBride in
the front seat Pinky Nelson in the back seat are taking pictures the underside
of the orbiter to see how uh what kind of pre landing tile damage we got and
sure enough almost all the hits on the bottom. A study of the films is revealed
what due to uh something that happened before we hit the ground and we uh we're
in about an angle of glide of about 20 degrees at this point and the airspeed
was about 285 knots. We have a large speed brake on the rear end that John is
modulating to hold the airspeed. It's just a perfect day for it too. There was no
wind to mount anything all the way down just a terrific flying day. You couldn't
ask for any better for a first flight. Back to looking out my window again you
may be able to see two windows on two uh dots on that black triangle just before
pre-flare which pre-flare is right there. Pre-flare is just under 2 000 feet when
John pulls back on the stick. Those two dots show that we're coming down the
glide slope 20 degrees dropped the gear at about 275 knots. It came down very
fast. It came down and uh most longest gear took to get down with six seconds. The
chase airplane is calling out altitude of wheels above the ground because uh
that height of wheel height is about 38 feet which is kind of like landing
something from a three-story building.
It's really a nice flying machine as soon as you touch down. You put the nose
over to six degrees above the horizon and then all of a sudden it starts
dropping and you can't hold it up. I've never been aboard an airplane that
touchdown ended softer anywhere.
The rollout was nice and straight in John john didn't didn't apply the brakes so
we were probably below 50 knots and that was mainly just to test them out. Well
the data says it was 108 knots but you know actually we had a little failure on
one of the brake systems prior to early in uh that was what when that occurred.
Those dry lake beds out there are nice and smooth. It's like coming down a runway
and there's wheel stop.
We can go ahead and terminate the film now. Please I know it doesn't look like it
but that vehicle sitting there weighs 99 tons and although we like to brag that
it's as big as a dc9 what it really is is a dc9 but it has a section of fuselage
in there. That's a dc10. It's got the capability. It's a dc10 fuselage. It's a 22
feet in diameter and the payload bay is of course 60 feet long and 15 feet in
diameter. We're going to use it to uh we're going to use this thing with this big
payload capability to put up to 65 000 pounds in low earth orbit and I think it
will just revolutionize the way that uh that we do business uh in around the
world. It really will. It has a lot of potential for advancing science and
technology in the united states and and I certainly believe that we must we must
pursue this somehow if we're going to make it. We're going to have to do it with
our brains and and uh uh with the space shuttle uh it offers us the opportunity
to do in space science and advanced technology in this country. I believe uh in
it will in five to ten years we'll be able to do what it takes 20 to 30 years to
do without the space shuttle. There were a couple of newspapers that really did
give us a bad time about the space shuttle you know and uh they don't belong to
this outfit. They were pravda and tass and and I didn't realize how right we were
doing things till I read how bad they thought about it. Must have been doing
something right, right. It was enjoyable from start to finish. The thing just
worked unbelievably well. I couldn't believe it. Crip and I had been trained to
handle something just this side of armageddon and it just didn't turn out. We
almost uh oh i wouldn't say bored we had a lot of a opportunity to sit back and
enjoy the view which is the way we wanted to do it. John said we think that we've
got a fantastic technological capability. Uh over the next couple of years we're
going to be flying the shuttle considerably more. We're building some more of
them and I don't think that we necessarily have to go out and and sell the
shuttle now that we've got it flying. I think it will sell itself one of the
things that John and I are going to be trying to do is to convince people that
we ought to be starting to pursue putting the united states in orbit permanently
with the building of some type of permanent manned person excuse me ladies space
station and we're going to be talking to our administration about that. Well I,
I'll tell you what. I think we would like to try to entertain a few questions
from the audience if we have a little bit more time. Vince. Yeah maybe just a few.
Why don't you bring the lights up? There are microphones across the floor we've
got probably about five minutes and John and Bob would like to answer a few
questions. See what's on your mind. Uh just step up to the microphone if you would
and ask ask a question. Maybe let me ask you this first while someone is getting
the microphone. Maybe you can tell us a little bit more about the personal
considerations, the food and the kind of food and how you go to the bathroom, all
those good things. John have you got any answers for those? Well the last four
hours of the mission you couldn't because the uh the machine had broken, but uh
and y'all had wondered why John was jumping around outside the spacecraft no no
no no i was jumping around because the tiles were still there. Actually going to
the bathroom in space is very straightforward activity just like it is on earth
and uh but you have to be very careful. Yeah but Vince was right we did have uh
uh the the potty was the only significant malfunction I think that we we
encountered except for one of our instrumentation recorders uh and it worked not
well and slowly degraded to the point where like four hours prior to entry it
wasn't functioning at all and we've got some of our engineers working on that
because our compatriots are talking about a seven-day flight and I don't think
they'd like that if it wasn't working. Any more questions? Yes I have a question.
Uh mr chairman I'd like to, I'm Billy Morris from Augusta, Georgia. I would like to
address this question to John uh who actually made the landing. Tell us uh in
your training did you actually practice this landing uh prior to making this one,
and secondly uh tell us a little bit about the alignment and the guidance system
which uh brought you to the end of the runway. Uh is this similar to the ils
systems used in commercial airlines, uh a flight director system, or tell us just
a little bit about how you got lined up right at the end of the runway. Well you
do practice a lot manual landing. We have a shuttle train airplane which is a
modified gulf stream 2 with a computer in it. It uses uh when you come down that
outer glide slope it has to use almost full reverse thrust to give you the same
glide angle it has direct lift flaps on it to give you more drag. You throw the
wheels down to give you drag and it's very difficult to make an airplane a
conventional airliner fly as bad as a space shuttle but we we managed to do that
and so we have a very realistic training training uh device and you practice it
a lot because like Crip says 38 foot 38 foot height of eye in the air is not
the routine thing for most fighter pilots to land airplanes. Is it maybe for 747
pilots so you practice it a lot and you practice all kinds of contingency things
but no two landings are alike so we really didn't get a chance to practice for
this one i think.
That John logs something like 1300 approaches in the shuttle training aircraft
besides the simulator so he tried it once twice. The second question is the
guidance system that got us there you use. Uh the navigation system that got us
there is a tactical uh you use tac-can which is a bearing and ranging device and
then you on the outer glide slope at 18 000 feet we shifted to a microwave
landing system which is a very uh uh new. Uh it operates on a ku band. It's a new
system that we're going to be able to couple the autoland system into and fly it
all the way into. One of these days zero zero weather and i don't want to be on
that one either but it's uh you know it's going to take the brave men to do that
i think and i'm not in that category. Any other questions? What's there another
question. Paul Flynn from the
fort soviet union's space program right now. Uh the
question was how do we see our position with respect to the Soviets? Uh in regard
to the space program people uh still keep wanting to bring that particular
subject up from areas back when we were supposedly doing a race for the moon or
whatever and i guess you can judge it from various standpoints. I had the
opportunity to train with the cosmonauts back uh in 75 when we were doing the
joint mission Apollo-Soyuz. Uh I was very much by impressed by the Soviets'
determination to stay in space and continue on with basically what appeared to
me to be put building some type of a permanent space station on orbit and
eventually going out to the planets they want to do that with the respect to
basic technology. I don't think they come close yet but they really have a
determination. Uh one last question. Steve Stewart, St Cloud Times. What were the
nature and scope of the scientific experiments on the Columbia mission,
scientific type of experiments that you tried in addition to photographs? While
even the photograph were bootleg we were supposed to do a test mission in the uh
scientific type internal to the vehicle uh test uh measurements that we made are
like radiation we had radiation counters all over the thing you want to see what
kind of radiation shielding you got and on specific scientific things uh since
it was a basic test mission. We really didn't have any we had uh five tons of
development flight instrumentation in those pallets in the back of the ship that
were measuring temperatures and pressures. I think our basic contribution was uh
if it was a scientific one was a investigation of the hypersonic flight regime
and I'm glad to tell you that that worked satisfactorily. We were not 100 sure, at
least, I wasn't, that it was going to. Any other questions? Or no, I think we're just
about out of time. Okay, Bob, John, thank you very much for being here and for
giving us something to be proud about it we sure enjoyed it.
[Applause.]